# Backend

## Setting up a venv and installing dependencies

Create a venv, install Poetry, and then install the dependencies:

```shell
# Navigate to this directory
cd backend

# Create a virtual environment
python3 -m venv venv

# Make "pip3" and "python3" refer to the custom Python version in your venv
# PyCharm does this automatically, so this is only required if you're using another IDE
source venv/bin/activate

# Install Poetry
pip3 install poetry

# Install all dependencies and dev dependencies
poetry install
```

Note that, in case your IDE does not do this automatically, you have to run `source venv/bin/activate` every time you want to run the backend, as otherwise your interpreter won't be able to find the packages.

## Creating a .env file

A `.env`-file can be used to store secrets such as database passwords. Further, it allows flexibility among developers by loading a specific configuration from the file instead of hard coding it in.

This directory contains a `.env.example` file which shows the general structure the file should take, with dummy values.

1. Create a new file named `.env` in this directory.
2. Copy the content of the `.env.example` file into it.
3. Edit the environment variables so the values are correct for your local system (e.g. change the password to your database password).

## Keeping requirements up to date

Whenever you'd like to install a new package, install it using `Poetry` so that the [`pyproject.toml`](pyproject.toml)-file is always up-to-date. This ensures we always have the same versions of every package.

```shell
# Install a regular dependency
poetry add package_name

# Install a dev dependency
poetry add --dev package_name
```

## Type annotations

Please **type your code**. Python is not a statically typed language, so IDEs might not be able to provide much useful information. By incorporating type annotations, development becomes a lot easier and faster. Furthermore, this helps avoid unnecessary bugs caused by non-matching types.

```python
def function(first: str, second: int) -> bool:
    pass
```

Link to the documentation for the typing module: https://docs.python.org/3/library/typing.html

## Migrations

We use alembic to manage the database for us.

Run the migrations to setup the database to the most up te date state:

```shell
python3 -m alembic upgrade head
```

When changing sqlite models a new migration should be made afterwards. A new migration can be autogenerated using:

```shell
python3 -m alembic revision --autogenerate -m 'Your message'
```

Then you can modify this autogenerated migration to your needs. More info about autogenerate: https://alembic.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/autogenerate.html

## Running the project

To start the API, run the following command in your terminal:

```shell
uvicorn src.app:app --reload
```

The "--reload" argument will enable hot reloading while you're developing, so you don't have to manually restart the process every time.

⚠ **_Note_: the `--reload` argument should _not_ be used in production!**

To run the API on a specific IP-address and port, use the `--host` and `--port` arguments:

```shell
uvicorn src.app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 80
```

## Running tests

Refer to [`tests.md`](tests.md) for more information

## Creating and starting the database

Refer to [`database_docker.md`](database_docker.md) for more information.
